** This is an attempted port of Grail to Python 3. **
** Below is the original README. **

GRAIL 0.6
=========

Grail(TM) is a web browser written in Python, an object-oriented
scripting language.  Grail is distributed in source form.  It requires
that you have a Python interpreter and a Tcl/Tk installation, with the
Python interpreter configured for Tcl/Tk support.

In this file:

	- Licensing issues
	- Future development
	- Hardware requirements
	- Installation
	- Using Grail
	- Web resources
	- Feedback
	- Epilogue


Licensing issues
----------------

The license of Grail allows essentially unrestricted use and
redistribution.  The full text of the license can be found in the file
LICENSE in this directory.  The sources are Copyright (c) CNRI
1996-1999.  Grail is a registered trademark of CNRI.


Future development
------------------

Given the low usage of Grail, CNRI cannot allocate further resources
to this project.  The license allows for derivative projects, so
anyone who has a need for a Python-based or easily modified Internet
browser is free to use the Grail source code as a basis for a new
project.

The Grail development team would be happy to provide anyone seriously
interested in using Grail as the basis for a new project with a copy
of the CVS repository.  We are also able to provide pointers from the 
Grail Web site to any new projects that spring up based on Grail.


Hardware requirements
---------------------

Grail runs on most Unix systems, on Windows NT and 95, and on
Macintosh systems, provided you have enough memory and a fast enough
machine.  (For Windows, 32 Meg RAM and 90 MHz Pentium is a reasonable
minimal configuration.  For Macintosh, a 40 MHz 68k or any PPC, with
24 Meg RAM, is acceptable.)


Installation
------------

There are three steps to take before you can use Grail:

- Install Tcl and Tk.  The versions must be compatible with each other
and with the Python version you are installing in the next step;
currently, the oldest Tcl/Tk version supported is 8.0.  You can get
Tcl/Tk it at http://www.scriptics.com/; or try ftp to ftp.sunlabs.com
in directory /pub/tcl/.

- Install Python 1.5 (or newer if available), configured for use with
Tk.  The URL to get Python is http://www.python.org/; or try ftp to
ftp.python.org in directory /pub/python/src/.  You must enable Tk
support by editing the file Modules/Setup; see the comments in that
file (search for "tkinter") and the main README that comes with Python.

- Install the Grail sources in a convenient place.  Grail is executed
directly from its source directory.  If you are using the /usr/local
hierarchy, the Grail sources could be installed in
/usr/local/lib/grail/.

You can also choose to leave grail.py unchanged and have a shell
script named "grail" which execs the Python interpreter, e.g.:

    exec python /usr/local/lib/grail/grail.py ${1+"$@"}

(On Windows or Macintosh systems, the best thing to do is to create a
shortcut or alias to the file grail.py on the desktop.)


Using Grail
-----------

If the first line of the grail.py script points to a working Python
interpreter with Tk support, you should be able to start Grail by
executing "./grail.py" in the Grail source directory.  Grail figures
out where the source directory is by inspecting sys.argv[0], so in
fact typing the pathname to the script from anywhere should work.

Command line options:

The "-g <geometry>" option lets you specify an initial geometry for
the first browser window in the standard X11 geometry form:
[<width>x<height>][+<x>+<y>], where all dimensions are measured in
pixels.  It is also possible to set the width and height (in character
units) through the General preference panel.

The "-i" option inhibits loading of images for this session.
This option can also be set via the General preference panel.

The "-d <display>" option lets you override the $DISPLAY environment
variable.

Advanced users with a grailrc.py file can use "-q" to inhibit
processing of grailrc.py.  This may be useful during debugging.

Command line arguments:

The only positional command line argument is an optional URL of a page
to display initially.  This does not become your "home page"; use the
General preference panel to change the page loaded by the Home command
in the Go menu, and to choose whether this page should be loaded
initially if no URL is given on the command line.


Web resources
-------------

More information on using Grail can be found through the Grail home
page, at this URL:

    http://grail.sourceforge.net/

This page is also accessible through the "Grail Home Page" item of the
Help menu.


Feedback
--------

Grail 0.6 is the last version of Grail to be released by CNRI.  If a
new project based on Grail appears, we will be glad to point to it
from the Grail Web site, but we are not prepared to respond to bug
reports.

Refer to the Grail Web site to determine if any derived projects have
been started.


Epilogue
--------

"Everything should be made as simple as possible, but no simpler."
	--Albert Einstein

"Nothing is as simple as we hope it will be."
	--Jim Horning

"Simple is as simple does."
	--Forrest Gump
